# Introduction to SAP S/4HANA

## System Applications and Products (SAP) SE 
- It is the market leader in enterprise application software.
- It is a German multinational company that pioneered ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) software.
- It is one of the world’s largest independent software manufacturers, with 400,000 customers in 190 countries.
- SAP lets companies streamline processes, use live data, predict customer trends, and connect entire businesses.

## SAP History
The following shows a short history of SAP through the years:

| YEAR | DESCRIPTION |
|------|-------------|
| 1972 | SAP was founded for the development of real-time data application software. |
| 1981 – 1982 | SAP R/2 was introduced |
| 1986 – 1989 | SAP R/3 was developed, and SAP was presented at the CeBIT Hanover. |
| 1993 – 1994 | A partnership with Microsoft was established by connecting SAP R/3 with the Windows NT operating system. The IBM Corporation started using SAP R/3. |
| 1995 – 1996 | SAP joined the Internet, and SAP R/3 can be used online |
| 2002 | It is its 30th anniversary, becoming the 3rd largest independent software provider. |
| 2005 – 2006 | The release of SAP ERP was announced. |
| 2009 | SAP Business Suite 7 was launched to optimize business performance and reduce IT costs. |
| 2011 | The first SAP in-memory computing product was implemented, resulting in the SAP HANA platform. It made data access possible in seconds. |
| 2013 | SAP Business Suite moves to SAP HANA, becoming the fastest-growing product in the history of enterprise software. |
| 2015 | SAP S/4HANA was introduced. |

## SAP S/4HANA
- It is the next-generation Business Suite and the biggest innovation since SAP R/3.
- It is the digital core of the company that enables digital transformation.
- One of the advantages of SAP S/4HANA is real-time simplification. A typical booking transaction with 15 tables
could be compressed to four (4) tables using SAP S/4HANA.

## SAP Fiori
- It is a design system and a user experience (UX) layer that allows business app creation with a consumer-grade
user experience. It makes casual users into SAP experts with simple screens that run on any device. SAP Fiori
provides a user interface for SAP S/4HANA.
- It has three (3) application types:
  - Transactional apps that are used to access tasks like Create, Change, or Display Process with
guided navigation;
  - Analytical apps that give a visual overview of business data and
  - A factsheet with a view of the essential information about objects and contextual navigation
between related objects.

## Data Types
- Organizational Data are data that are part of the organizational unit,such as the company code, plant, storage location, and distribution channel.
- Master Data such as person, material, customer, and vendor can be stored for a long time and rarely changed. It represents logically grouped data like customer master, material master, vendor master, and general ledger accounts.
- Transaction Data is the system record of the business event wherein, depending on the business event, different master data and organization data will be referenced.
- For example, during a sales order business event, the following data is stored:
  - Organizational: Client, Company Code, Sales organization
  - Master: Customer, Material, Pricing
  - Transaction: Date, Time, Person, Amount

## Cloud vs. On-Premise
- SAP S/4HANA can be accessed on the Cloud and On-Premise. Both can be used hybridly without losing the company’s integration.
- The Cloud Edition has a subscription licensing deployed in the private cloud maintained by SAP. SAP also provides system and control maintenance. This edition allows automatic participation in quarterly innovation upgrades and has current release cycles.
- The On-Premise edition is under traditional licensing with customer control of deployment and maintenance. The hardware in this edition is at the company’s location, and the data is privately controlled. Compared to the cloud edition, this has fewer release cycles.

## Optimization Levers
- Efficiency focuses on accelerated execution, automated process steps, and digital out-tasking.
- Effectiveness is speeding up action, de-layer processes, and raising process intelligence.
- Agility focuses on process flexibility, organizational flexibility, and assimilating process innovation.

## Transition to SAP S/4HANA
- Here are the possible scenarios when a company transitions to SAP S/4HANA and the benefits they could get.

1. New Implementation
Scenario: New implementation of SAP S/4HANA for customers migrating a legacy system. It is known as the
greenfield approach.
Benefits for the customer:
• Reengineering the process simplification based on ready-to-run business processes
• Predefined migration objects and best practices are available with guided configuration
• Reduce time to value and customer total cost of ownership (TCO)
• The rapid adoption of innovations
This type of transition would require project duration parameters such as the number of data migration
objects (Material, Customer, Vendor, etc.) and volume and complexity per data migration object.
The process begins with installing SAP S/4HANA and an initial data load from the source system. Tools used
are SAP Data Services (SAP DS) for On-Premise and SAP Landscape Transformation (SAP LT) for Cloud.

2. System Conversion
Scenario: Customers who want to convert their current system into an SAP S/4HANA system. It shows the
database, SAP NetWeaver, and application transition in a single step.
Benefits for the customer:
• Migration without reimplementation
• No disruption to existing business process
• Reevaluation of customization and existing process flows
This transition requires the number of systems and source database size (technical) and the number of
company codes, ledgers, and operating concerns (functional) as its project duration parameters.
Before running the conversion, add-ons and other solutions must be prioritized to ensure compatibility, and
the components and customer code to validate further prerequisites must be checked.

3. Landscape Transformation
Scenario: Customers who want to consolidate their landscape or selectively transform data into a SAP
S/4HANA system.
Benefits for the customer:
• Selective data transformation allows a phased approach, focusing on parts of the business with
the highest ROI (return on investment) and lower TCO.
• System and landscape consolidation with harmonized/simplified processes and unified master
data leads to lower TCO.
This transition's general project duration parameters depend on the selected sub-scenario, such as system
consolidation, selective migration, and central finance. Still, the specified parameters include the number of
systems to be consolidated, including the volume of the selected data. 
