# Introduction to Mobile Application Development

## Mobile Operating Systems
1. **Android**
   - Created by Google
   - It is one of the most commonly installed mobile OS for mobile devices, with support from various device manufacturers.
   - It is an open source OS, which means developers are given access to unlocked hardware to develop new programs.
2. **iOS**
   - iOS (originally known as iPhone OS) is developed by Apple and is distributed exclusively for Apple hardware (iPhone, iPad, etc.).
   - One of its well-known features is its multi-touch gestures.
3. . **Windows Phone**
   - Developed by Microsoft Corporation.
   - Some of its features include apps that update real-time, and full support for Microsoft products such as MS Office.
4. **Blackberry**
   - Exclusive for Blackberry phones.
5. **Symbian**
   - A discontinued OS last used by Nokia for their smartphones.
  
## Benefits of Mobile Application
1. **Convenience**
2. **Interactivity**
3. **Personalization**
4. **Speed**
5. **Productivity**

## Development Environments
1. **Android Studio*
   - The official IDE for Android application development, based on IntelliJ IDEA (a Java IDE).
   - It includes code templates to help build common app features and rich layout editor with support for drag-and-drop theme editing.
   - It also  has built-in support for Google Cloud Platform, making it easy to integrate Google Cloud Messaging and App Engine.
2. **Xcode**
   - It includes everything that can be used to create amazing apps for iPhone and iPad.
   - It allows users to build apps and run them directly on their Apple devices.
   - The programming language used is Swift (created by Apple for iOS, OS X, and watchOS development).
3. **Visual Studio**
   - It is a fully-featured extensible IDE for creating modern applications for Windows, Android, and iOS, as well as web applications and cloud services.
  
## Factors to Consider
1. **Platforms and Device Compatibility**
2. **Screen Size**
3. **User Interaction**
4. **Screen Density**
5. **Phone Function Integration**
6. **Resource Management**
